But if we get into an infinite
scrolling situation,
then this is not gonna be ideal.
Because we don't wanna be rendering
hundreds and hundreds of these elements.
Instead, we want to render
just a few at a time.
So we need to use a technique
called windowing, and
only render the elements that
are actually relevant at the moment.
And in order to do this,
we first need to wrap this entire thing in
an element that I'm gonna call viewport,
div class = viewport.
For now, just so that we can see it,
we'll give it a maximum
height of say 500 pixels.
And we'll make that
overflow-y of auto.
And right now, of course,
we're still rendering everything.
But now that we have some scroll
behavior on that viewport, we can start
to do some calculations about which of
these elements should actually be shown.
And before we do that,
let's add the next page link for
the users who don't have JavaScript.
So if next is specified,
then we'll add a href
= (next) with some text
that just says next page.
So for our windowing,
we're gonna need to add a scroll handler.
And on every scroll event,
we're gonna need to recalculate which
elements should currently be in the view.
So I'm gonna create a function
called handle_scroll.
And I'm gonna create some variables that
are bound to the elements that we're
dealing with here.
We're gonna have one for the viewport.
It's gonna be an HTMLDivElement.
And we're gonna have one for
the results block as well.
And I'm gonna use bind:this
to get references to them.
Viewport on the outer div.
And results on the inner div there.
And we're gonna add the scroll
listener to the viewport itself.
It's gonna move this style declaration
into the CSS so that is out of the way.
It's already there.
On scroll,
we'll pass in that handle scroll function.
Just to verify that it's working,
we'll log out the word
scrolling, open our dev tools,
go to the console.
Right when we scroll,
we get the event handler has been called.
And this handle scroll function
is gonna have two jobs.
Firstly, it's gonna determine which
elements are currently in view so
that we can get rid of
the ones that are not.
But secondly,
it's also gonna tell the parent component,
how close we are to the end.
If we're getting to the bottom of
the display elements, then if this is
an infinite scroll component, then we're
gonna need to go and fetch some more data.
And so for that to work,
we're gonna need to emit an event.
But we're not gonna worry about
that just now for right now,
we're just gonna deal with
the windowing aspect.
So to track which elements
are supposed to be in view,
we're gonna create a value a.
This is gonna be the first
visible element.
And b is the last, or
the first invisible element, I should say.
And we can initialize these to zero and
movies.length
So by default,
everything is gonna get rendered.
Movies.slice a, b is gonna
ensure that only the movies that
we're currently concerned
with are being rendered.
And inside handles scroll,
we need to update those values.
But if we're gonna be taking
things out of the DOM,
then everything else is gonna
jump up to fill that space.
So we're also gonna need to add some
padding on this element to compensate for
the elements that have been removed.
So we're gonna add some padding,
padding_top = 0 and
padding_bottom = 0, right?
So if we take out
the first row of elements,
then we'll add some padding on
the results div that will make everything
else get pushed down as though that
row of elements was still there.
In order to do any of this,
we need to know what size
the elements in this grid are.
So we need to start adding some values for
those as well.
We'll have one for item width,
which is gonna be a number.
And one for item height,
also gonna be a number.
And we'll have one for
the number of columns.
And right now, that's hard-coded
in our CSS, down here is 4.
So I'm just gonna do that here as well.
Later, we can make this responsive because
on mobile, we're gonna have two columns,
and then on a much bigger screen,
we're gonna have six.
It'd be nice for that to be dynamic,
but for now, we'll just do hard coding.
In order to get these values,
we're gonna need to do some measurements
every time the page is resized.
So we're gonna add a resize function
as well as a scroll function.
Function handle_resize, and in here,
we're gonna get those item width and
item height values.
And so that we can call that function
every time the window gets resized,
we'll add a Svelte:window
on:resize = (handle_resize).
But we also wanna call this function
when the component is first mounted.
So we're gonna add an onMount.
I'm just gonna immediately
call handle_resize.
And of course, after we've taken
the measurements that we're about to take,
we're gonna wanna update the a and
b and padding values.
So at the bottom of our
handle_resize function,
we're gonna call it handle_scroll.
So the first thing we're gonna do inside
handle_resize is grab a reference
to the first element.
Because we know that all of these poster
images have the same aspect ratio,
and because this is a regular grid, we
can use that as a proxy for all of them.
So the first element is gonna tell us
what the width of every single item is.
Const first = results.firstChild, and
you'll recall that results is
bound to this div class = results.
So it's gonna give us
the first anchor element.
And the item_width is
this is just gonna be
the offsetWidth of that
element item_height.
Item_height = first.offsetHeight.
And num_columns again we're
gonna keep that as 4 now.
So it's giving us some red squigglies
here because we can't guarantee,
or TypeScript at least can't guarantee
that results has any children at all.
So we need to tell it that, no,
we do definitely have a child here!
But that is actually a good point.
We might not have any elements at all.
In which case, we probably don't want
to render this results page at all.
So later, we'll make sure that we only
render the results page component when we
do in fact have some movies.
It's complaining that this first element
might not be the sort of thing that has
an offset width or an offset height, so
we need to give TypeScript
some more information.
Do as HTMLAnchorElement
because that's what it is.
And now you can see those red
squigglers have gone away.
And now that we've got the width and
the height,
we can start doing some calculations.
Inside our handle scroll function,
we get rid of that logging and
we're gonna set the value of a.
It's gonna be the Math.floor
of the viewport
scroll top divided by
the item height which
is the height of each row multiplied
by the number of columns.
And then the final value, the b value,
which is the first element that is not yet
visible,
we can calculate that with math.ceil,
math.ceiling of scrollTop +.
So a viewport.scrollTop +
the viewport.clientHeight.
Divided by the item_height, and
then multiplied by the number of columns.
All right, so
if we just get rid of this for a minute so
that we can visualize this,
we're gonna add some debugging
information showing items a- b.
And it's doing some funky
floating point stuff here.
Because I got my parentheses in the wrong
place, so let's just fix that real quick.
You can see that it's currently
showing items 0 to 20.
And that makes sense because we can see,
4 by 5 is showing all 20 elements.
If we make this window smaller,
then I would hope that it
was going to change that,
but it has not changed that.
Let me just take a quick look and
figure out why.
I think it might be because,
The viewport is too large.
Okay, if we constrain the viewport so
that we only get a smaller window,
then we can see now that
as we're scrolling,
it's figuring out correctly which
elements are currently visible.
So now we just need to add the padding,
and then we can actually get
rid of the elements that are not
currently in the visible viewport.
Padding_top is gonna be math.floor
of a divided by the number of columns
multiplied by the item_height.
And padding_bottom is gonna be math.floor.
We get the length of
the entire array minus b,
so that gives us all of
the excess at the end,
divided by the number of columns,
multiplied by the item height.
Okay, so
now if we put that slice back in there, so
that we only render the elements
that we care about.
And then on the results div we'll add some
inline styles which apply that padding,
style:padding_top = (padding_top)px.
We'll duplicate that for the bottom.
And now you can't tell by looking at it.
But hopefully, if you look inside the DOM,
we'll see that
the fourth item there is actually
the first item in the DOM, right?
We haven't got the first four
elements of the array in the DOM, but
as far as the user's concerned,
everything is there.
So this is the basis of
our windowing mechanism.
You'll recall that our results
page component has two jobs.
One is the windowing, but the other is
that it needs to tell its parent when
the user has scrolled far enough that
it needs to load some more data.
So this component needs to
become an event dispatcher.
So we're gonna create a dispatch function,
By importing createEventDispatcher
from Svelte and calling it.
And then inside our scroll handler,
we're gonna determine whether or
not we are close enough to the end that
it's time to tell the parent
component to load some more data.
So the value that we'd care about
is the remaining scroll room.
And we can calculate that by doing const
remaining = viewport.scrollHeight-
viewport.scrollTop +
viewport.clientHeight.
And if we log that out as we're scrolling,
You can see that, that number gets lower
the closer that we get to the end,
until eventually, when we get
to the bottom, that number is 0.
And just as a crude heuristic,
we'll say that if that value
drops below say 400, then we'll
broadcast an event that tells the patient
we need to load some more data.
I don't know what to call this event.
Naming stuff is hard.
I'm just gonna call it end,
like that, that'll do.
And now in the page that
is using this component,
we can add an on:end handler.
Then we can load some more data.
We'll just verify that that's working.
If we scroll down far enough,
then it starts logging that we
need to load some more data.